LEVELED CRIMINAL CHARGES AGAINST
FIVE CHINESE MILITARY OFFICIALS
TODAY, ACCUSING THEM OF TRYING
TO STEAL AMERICAN COMPANIES'
TRADE SECRETS THROUGH CYBER-
ESPIONAGE.
GOOD EVENING, I'M GWEN IFILL,
JUDY WOODRUFF IS AWAY.
ALSO AHEAD THIS MONDAY, MARGARET
WARNER REPORTS FROM EASTERN
UKRAINE ON TENSIONS STILL
SIMMERING THERE.
AND JUDY TALKS TO MASSACHUSETTS
DEMOCRAT SENATOR ELIZABETH
WARREN, ON AMERICA'S ECONOMIC
CHALLENGES, AND HER NEW BOOK,
"A FIGHTING CHANCE."
>> MERCK'S MIDDLE CLASS IS
JUST GETTING HAMMERED.
AND PART OF THE REASON FOR
THAT IS THAT THERE IS A REAL
TILT IN WASHINGTON.
POLICIES THAT WORK FOR THE
RICH AND POWERFUL, AND NOT
SO MUCH FOR EVERYBODY ELSE
>> Ifill: THOSE ARE JUST SOME OF
THE STORIES WE'RE COVERING ON
TONIGHT'S PBS NEWSHOUR
>> Ifill: EUROPEAN BANKING GIANT
"CREDIT SUISSE A.G." ADMITTED
TODAY IT ILLEGALLY HELPED
WEALTHY AMERICANS DODGE TAXES.
THE BANK ENTERED A FEDERAL PLEA
DEAL AND AGREED TO PAY
$2.6 BILLION IN PENALTIES.
IT'S PART OF A CRACKDOWN ON
FOREIGN BANKS ALLEGEDLY HIDING
U.S. TAXPAYER ASSETS OFFSHORE.
A.T.&.T. PLEDGED TODAY TO
"REDEFINE THE VIDEO
ENTERTAINMENT INDUSTRY" IF IT'S
ALLOWED TO BUY SATELLITE T.V.
PROVIDER DIRECTV.
THE DEAL, VALUED AT $48.5
BILLION, WOULD CREATE THE
NATION'S SECOND LARGEST PAY T.V.
OPERATOR.
COMCAST AND TIME WARNER CABLE
WOULD BE THE LARGEST, UNDER A
MERGER PROPOSED IN FEBRUARY.
BOTH DEALS ARE SUBJECT TO
FEDERAL APPROVAL.
BRITISH DRUG MAKER ASTRAZENECA
HAS REJECTED A FINAL
$119 BILLION TAKEOVER OFFER FROM
AMERICAN RIVAL, PFIZER.
THE MOVE ENDS PFIZER'S LONG
BATTLE TO FORM THE WORLD'S
LARGEST DRUG COMPANY.
ASTRAZENECA SAYS THE BID DID NOT
REFLECT ITS TRUE VALUE.
THE BALKANS STRUGGLED TODAY WITH
THE WORST FLOODING IN MORE THAN
A CENTURY.
AT LEAST 35 PEOPLE WERE DEAD,
AND THOUSANDS MORE WERE FORCED
TO FLEE.
ACROSS SERBIA, THE RAGING SAVA
RIVER SUBMERGED ENTIRE TOWNS,
PROMPTING MASS EVACUATIONS.
CREWS BUILT A WALL OF SANDBAGS
AROUND THE COUNTRY'S MAIN POWER
PLANT TO PROTECT IT.
MEANWHILE, IN SARAJEVO, BOSNIA'S
FOREIGN MINISTER SAID THE DAMAGE
THERE IS IMMENSE.
>> THE COUNTRY IS DESTROYED AS A
COUNTRY.
WE HAVE LITERALLY TENS OF
THOUSANDS AND THOUSANDS OF
PEOPLE WHO ACTUALLY HAVE NO
BUSINESS, WHO LOST EVERYTHING.
THE COUNTRY IS DEVASTATED.
2,000 LANDSLIDES IN A COUNTRY
LIKE THIS.
>> Ifill: THE BOSNIAN FOREIGN
MINISTER SAID THE FLOOD HAS
DESTROYED ABOUT 100,000 HOMES.
IN TURKEY, AUTHORITIES FORMALLY
ARRESTED TWO MORE PEOPLE IN LAST
WEEK'S MINING DISASTER THAT
KILLED 301 PEOPLE.
THAT MAKES FIVE EXECUTIVES AND
SUPERVISORS OF THE MINING FIRM,
NOW CHARGED WITH NEGLIGENT
DEATH.
OTHERS ARE STILL BEING
QUESTIONED.
ALSO TODAY, TURKISH NEWS REPORTS
SAID MINE OFFICIALS IGNORED HIGH
LEVELS OF TOXIC GAS, DAYS BEFORE
THE INCIDENT.
THE DEATH TOLL IN SYRIA'S THREE-
YEAR-OLD CIVIL WAR HAS NOW
EXCEEDED 160,000 PEOPLE.
THE "SYRIAN OBSERVATORY FOR
HUMAN RIGHTS" IN LONDON ISSUED
THE FIGURE TODAY.
THE UNITED NATIONS STOPPED
ATTEMPTING ITS OWN COUNT LAST
JULY, AT 100,000.
LIBYA FACED GROWING TURMOIL
TODAY AFTER A VIOLENT WEEKEND IN
TRIPOLI.
ON SUNDAY, FORCES LOYAL TO A
RENEGADE GENERAL STORMED THE
PARLIAMENT BUILDING, LEAVING
WINDOWS SMASHED.
LATER, THE SOLDIERS WITHDREW.
TODAY, THE COMMANDER OF LIBYA'S
SPECIAL FORCES JOINED FORCES
WITH THE GENERAL AGAINST
ISLAMIST MILITANTS.
BUT, THE OVERALL ARMY CHIEF
ORDERED THOSE MILITIAS TO DEFEND
THE CAPITAL.
THAT LEFT MANY APPEALING FOR
PEACE.
>> WHAT HAPPENED SHOULD NEVER
HAVE HAPPENED.
WE LIBYANS SHOULD HAVE
RECONCILIATION BETWEEN US.
I WANT TO SAY TO ALL THE LIBYAN
PEOPLE THAT WE SHOULD STAND BY
THE GOVERNMENT AND SUPPORT THE
LEGITIMATE AUTHORITIES OF THE
COUNTRY.
>> Ifill: LIBYA'S CENTRAL
GOVERNMENT HAS STRUGGLED TO
ASSERT CONTROL SINCE
LONG-TIME DICTATOR MUAMMAR
GADHAFI WAS OVERTHROWN THREE
YEARS AGO.
IRAQ'S RULING COALITION IS THE
BIG WINNER IN LAST MONTH'S
PARLIAMENTARY ELECTIONS.
RESULTS RELEASED TODAY SHOW
PRIME MINISTER NOURI AL-MALIKI
AND HIS SHIITE SUPPORTERS WON 92
SEATS OUT OF 328.
AL-MALIKI WILL NEED THE SUPPORT
OF OTHER GROUPS TO BUILD A NEW
GOVERNING MAJORITY.
BACK IN THIS COUNTRY, A
MISSISSIPPI MAN WAS SENTENCED
TODAY TO 25 YEARS IN FEDERAL
PRISON FOR SENDING LETTERS LACED
WITH RICIN TO PRESIDENT OBAMA.
JAMES EVERETT DUTSCHKE PLEADED
GUILTY LAST WEEK TO MAILING THE
LETTERS TO THE PRESIDENT AND TO
A MISSISSIPPI SENATOR AND A
JUDGE.
PROSECUTORS SAID IT WAS ALL A
PLOT TO FRAME ANOTHER MAN.
FORMER "NEW YORK TIMES" EDITOR
JILL ABRAMSON SPOKE OUT TODAY
FOR THE FIRST TIME SINCE BEING
FIRED LAST WEEK.
SHE ADDRESSED GRADUATES AT WAKE
FOREST UNIVERSITY IN NORTH
CAROLINA, AND SAID IT HURT TO
LOSE A JOB SHE LOVED.
BUT, SHE RECALLED HER FATHER
SAYING WHEN BAD THINGS HAPPEN,
YOU MUST "SHOW WHAT YOU ARE MADE
OF."
>> AND NOW I'M TALKING TO ANYONE
WHO'S BEEN DUMPED, YOU BET,  NOT
GOTTEN THE JOB YOU REALLY WANTED
OR RECEIVED THOSE HORRIBLE
REJECTION LETTERS FROM GRAD
SCHOOL, YOU KNOW THE STING OF
LOSING OR NOT GETTING SOMETHING
YOU BADLY WANT.
WHEN THAT HAPPENS, SHOW WHAT YOU
ARE MADE OF.
>> Ifill: THE TIMES PUBLISHER
DENIES ABRAMSON'S GENDER HAD
ANYTHING TO DO WITH HER
DISMISSAL.
INSTEAD, HE CITES MANAGEMENT
PROBLEMS RANGING FROM ARBITRARY
DECISIONS TO PUBLIC ABUSE OF
COLLEAGUES.
THE SUPREME COURT AGREED TODAY
TO ALLOW A COPYRIGHT LAWSUIT
OVER M.G.M.'S OSCAR-WINNING
MOVIE, "RAGING BULL."
THE 1980 FILM TOLD THE STORY OF
BOXER JAKE LAMOTTA.
IN 2009, A WOMAN WHOSE
SCREENWRITER-FATHER COLLABORATED
WITH LAMOTTA, SUED FOR
ROYALTIES.
TODAY, THE COURT REJECTED
M.G.M.'S ARGUMENT THAT SHE'D
WAITED TOO LONG TO SUE.
THIS WAS A RELATIVELY QUIET
MONDAY ON WALL STREET.
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
GAINED  20 POINTS TO CLOSE NEAR
16,512.
THE NASDAQ ROSE 35 POINTS TO
CLOSE NEAR 4,126.
AND THE S-AND-P ADDED SEVEN TO
FINISH AT 1,885.
>> Ifill: STILL TO COME ON THE
NEWSHOUR:
THE U.S. ACCUSES CHINESE
MILITARY OFFICIALS OF
CYBER-ESPIONAGE;
MARGARET WARNER REPORTS ON
SIMMERING TENSIONS IN UKRAINE;
GETTING HYDROGEN-POWERED CARS
READY FOR THE ROAD;
DEMOCRATIC SENATOR ELIZABETH
WARREN ON THE FUTURE OF THE
MIDDLE CLASS;
A PREVIEW OF TOMORROW'S
CONGRESSIONAL PRIMARIES;
PLUS, ONE MAN'S MISSION TO BRING
FREE SOCIAL SERVICES TO MYANMAR.
>> Ifill: THE OBAMA
ADMINISTRATION WENT ON THE
OFFENSIVE TODAY AGAINST CHINESE
CYBER-HACKING OF U.S.
BUSINESSES.
ATTORNEY GENERAL ERIC HOLDER
ANNOUNCED THE UNPRECEDENTED
INDICTMENTS THIS MORNING.
>> WHEN A FOREIGN NATION USES
MILITARY OR INTELLIGENCE
RESOURCES AND TOOLS AGAINST AN
AMERICAN EXECUTIVE OR
CORPORATION TO OBTAIN TRADE
SECRETS OR SENSITIVE BUSINESS
INFORMATION FOR THE BENEFIT OF
ITS STATE-OWNED COMPANIES, WE
MUST SAY ENOUGH IS ENOUGH.
>> Ifill: ENOUGH, IN THIS CASE,
MEANS PUBLICLY ACCUSING
FIVE CHINESE MILITARY OFFICIALS
OF STEALING TRADE SECRETS.
THE FIVE REPORTEDLY WORK IN THE
PEOPLE'S LIBERATION ARMY "UNIT
61398".
BASED IN THIS BUILDING IN
SHANGHAI.
ACCORDING TO THE U.S. PRIVATE
SECURITY FIRM MANDIANT, THAT'S
WHERE THE ALL-OUT HACKING
OCCURRED.
THE NEW INDICTMENTS SAY THE FIVE
HACKERS TARGETED SIX AMERICAN
FIRMS IN THE NUCLEAR, METALS AND
SOLAR PRODUCTS INDUSTRIES.
SPECIFICALLY: ALCOA, ALLEGHENY
TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED,
UNITED STATES STEEL, THE UNITED
STEELWORKERS UNION, SOLARWORLD,
AND WESTINGHOUSE ELECTRIC.
>> ALL NATIONS ARE ENGAGED IN
INTELLIGENCE GATHERING.
WHAT I THINK DISTINGUISHES THIS
CASE IS THAT WE HAVE A STATE-
SPONSORED ENTITY, STATE-
SPONSORED INDIVIDUALS USING
INTELLIGENCE TOOLS TO GAIN
COMMERCIAL ADVANTAGE.
>> Ifill: THE INDICTMENTS MARK
THE LATEST STAGE IN A GROWING
U.S.- CHINA STRUGGLE OVER CYBER-
ESPIONAGE.
IN OCTOBER 2012, THE HOUSE
INTELLIGENCE COMMITTEE TOOK AIM
AT  TWO MAJOR CHINESE TELECOM
COMPANIES, HUAWEI CORPORATION
AND Z.T.E. TECHNOLOGIES, FOR
THEIR TIES TO THE CHINESE
GOVERNMENT.
IT WARNED U.S. COMPANIES AGAINST
DOING BUSINESS WITH THEM.
THEN, IN HIS 2013 STATE OF THE
UNION ADDRESS, PRESIDENT OBAMA
CALLED FOR STRENGTHENING CYBER
DEFENSES.
WE CANNOT LOOK BACK YEARS
FROM NOW AND WONDER WHY WE
DID NOTHING TO DEAL WITH
REAL THREATS TO OUR ECONOMY.
>> Ifill: BUT CHINA HAS
COMPLAINED THE U.S. GOVERNMENT
IS DOING THE SAME THING TO OTHER
COUNTRIES, AS REVEALED BY THE
N.S.A. LEAKER EDWARD SNOWDEN,
NOW IN ASYLUM IN RUSSIA.
THE SUSPECTS ACCUSED TODAY ARE
BELIEVED TO BE IN CHINA, AND
IT'S NOT CLEAR THEY WOULD EVER
BE HANDED OVER.
STILL, HOLDER ARGUED IT'S IN
BEIJING'S INTEREST TO COOPERATE.
TO THE EXTENT THAT WE DO NOT
HAVE THAT COOPERATION, WE WILL
USE ALL THE MEANS THAT ARE
AVAILABLE TO USE TO ULTIMATELY
HAVE THESE PEOPLE APPEAR IN A
STATES
>> Ifill: CHINA GAVE NO SIGN IT
PLANS TO EXTRADITE ANY OF THE
SUSPECTS.
AND IT'S FOREIGN MINISTRY
RELEASED A STATEMENT REJECTING
THE CHARGES AS FABRICATED FACTS.
THE MOVE COMES AT A PARTICULARLY
TENSE TIME BETWEEN WASHINGTON
AND BEIJING, AS U.S. ALLIES
SEEK AMERICAN SUPPORT IN THEIR
CONFRONTATIONS WITH CHINA IN THE
SOUTH CHINA SEA.
>> Ifill: JOINING ME NOW TO
DISCUSS THE INDICTMENTS, CHINESE
CYBER-HACKING, AND HOW TODAY'S
ACTION AFFECTS THE U.S. - CHINA
RELATIONSHIP.
LAURA GALANTE, MANAGER OF THREAT
INTELLIGENCE AT FIREYE, WHICH
ACQUIRED THE SECURITY FIRM
MANDIANT EARLIER THIS YEAR.
AND SUSAN SHIRK, FORMER DEPUTY
ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF STATE FOR
CHINA POLICY IN THE CLINTON
ADMINISTRATION.
SHE'S NOW A PROFESSOR OF CHINA
AND PACIFIC RELATIONS AT THE
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA SAN
DIEGO.
GET US TO THE ROOT OF THESE
CHARGES, WHAT ARE THEY
ABOUT?
>> YES N READING THE
INDICTMENT THIS MORNING,
WHAT REALLY STOOD OUT WERE
THE ASPECT OS PROFILED THERE
SO WHAT WE SAW BASED ON THIS
INDICTMENT WERE THAT STEEL
COMPANIES, AND THE OTHER
COMPANIES MENTIONED WERE THE
TARGETS OF DATA FACTS THAT
FOCUSED ON THEIR CORPORATE
PROPRIETARY INFORMATION.
IT ALSO INCLUDED INFORMATION
REGARDING CONTRACTS AN
ACQUISITIONS THEY WERE
INVOLVED IN.
>> SUSAN SHIRK WHAT IS THE
SIGNIFICANCE IN THIS CASE OF
NAMING NAMES.
ACTUALLY SEEING FACES WITH
THESE ACCUSATIONS?
>> WELL, I THINK IT'S AN
EXPRESSION OF RESOLVE ON THE
PART OF THE U.S. GOVERNMENT
AND U.S. COMPANIES THAT THIS
PERVASIVE COMMERCIAL AS MEAN
AGE IS AGAINST U.S. LAW AND
THAT WE WON'T STAND FOR IT.
>> WELL, LET ME STICK WITH
YOU FOR A MOMENT.
WHAT'S THE POINT OF
TIGHTENING SCREWS NOW AS WE
JUST REPORTED, WE'VE BEEN
TALK ABOUT THIS FOR A WHILE.
>> WELL, THE INDICTMENT WAS
HANDED DOWN, I BELIEVE, MAY
1st.
IT APPEARS THAT MAYBE WE
WAITED UNTIL THE CHIEF OF
THE PEOPLE'S LIBERATION ARMY
GENERAL STAFF HAD LEFT TOWN.
HE PAID A RECENT VISIT TO
WASHINGTON IN ORDER TO
LAUNCH THIS SHOT ACROSS THE
BOW.
SO I THINK THE TIMING IS NOT
REALLY LINKED TO ANYTHING
OTHER THAN THE PROCEDURES
THAT THE JUSTICE DEPARTMENT
AND THE GRAND JURY HAD
FOLLOWED.
>> Ifill: IS THAT YOUR
UNDERSTANDING WELL LAURA
GALANTE?
>> I THINK THAT WHAT WE'RE
SEEING HERE IS AN ESCALATION
ON THE PART OF THE
ADMINISTRATION TO REALLY
CALL OUT THE SPECIFICS
AROUND WHAT THEY'RE SEEING
AS A LARGE SCALE DATA THEFT
OPERATION TOWARDS U.S.
BUSINESSES.
AND LIKE WE PROFILED IN THE
SERIES, THE DIFFERENT STEPS
THAT WERE TAKEN IN 2013,
WITH MANDIANT RELEASING ITS
REPORT DISCUSSING HACKING
AND THEN LATER THE BILATERAL
RELATIONS BETWEEN CHINA AND
U.S. TAKING CYBERSECURITY AT
THEIR CENTER, WE'RE NOW
SEEING THE THIRD ITERATION
OF DATA THEFT BEING AT THE
CENTRE OF WHAT'S COMING OUT
ABOUT WHAT THE CHINESE ARE
ACTIVELY PURSUING.
>> THE OBVIOUS QUESTION, ONE
RAISED BY THE EDWARD SNOWDEN
REVELATION AN ONE WHICH CAME
UP REPEATEDLY TODAY WITH THE
ATTORNEY GENERAL IS AREN'T
WE DOING THE SAME THING?
>> THE DISTINCTION HERE IS
THAT THIS IS ECONOMIC
ESPIONAGE THAT IS SUPPORTED
BY A STATE.
IN THE OTHER CASES WE'RE
SEEING STATE ON STATE
ESPIONAGE AND THAT IS REALLY
WHAT THE ATTORNEY GENERAL
SEEMS TO BE DRAWING OUT HERE
AS THE KEY DIFFERENTIATOR.
>> YOU MEAN BECAUSE CHINA IS
INVESTIGATE PRIVATE U.S.
INDUSTRY, NOT THE GOVERNMENT,
THAT IS WHEN THE PROBLEM
BEGINS.
>> YES.
>> Ifill: OKAY, THAT'S GOOD.
I JUST NEEDED TO BE CLEAR
ABOUT THAT.
>> SURE.
>> Ifill: WITH YOU SUSAN
SHIRK R OTHER OUTSTANDING
ISSUES INCLUDING THESE
TENSIONS IN THE SOUTH CHINA
SEA, HOW MUCH DOES TAKING
THIS ACTION NOW HAVE ANY
EFFECT ON THAT RELATIONSHIP?
>> WELL, ALTHOUGH THERE IS
NO DIRECT LINKAGE, I THINK
IT IS A SIGN THAT THE UNITED
STATES ISN'T JUST GOING TO
WHINE ABOUT THINGS IT
DOESN'T LIKE BUT WHEN WE
HAVE STEPS THAT WE CAN TAKE,
LEGAL ACTIONS OR IN SOME
CASES, EXERCISES OR MILITARY
BASING IN THE AREA, WE'RE
GOING TO TAKE THOSE ACTIONS.
IN OTHER WORDS, THERE'S SOME
SUGGESTION THAT THE FOLKS IN
BEIJING ARE TESTING THE
RESOLVE OF THE UNITED STATES
THROUGH A NUMBER OF
ASSERTIVE ACTIONS, BOTH ON
THE MARITIME TERRITORIAL
DISPUTES, THINGS LIKE
CYBERSECURITY, AS WELL AS A
LOT OF ECONOMIC DISPUTES
THAT WE HAVE WITH CHINA
RIGHT NOW.
AND THAT THEY SOMEHOW HAVE
GOTTEN THE IDEA THAT THE
U.S. IS ON THE DECLINE, THAT
IT'S NOT GOING TO STAND UP
FOR ITS OWN INTERESTS.
AND SO I THINK ACTIONS LIKE
TODAY DEMONSTRATE THAT THAT
IS NOT REALLY THE CASE.
NOW OF COURSE WHAT ARE WE
GOING TO DO TO ENFORCE THESE
INDICTMENTS THAT, YOU KNOW,
YOU COULD ARGUE THAT IT'S A
BIT OF AN EMPTY ACTION
BECAUSE THERE WON'T BE ANY
REAL PENALTIES UNLESS THESE
INDIVIDUALS TRAVEL OUTSIDE
OF CHINA.
>> ARE YOU TAKING-- YOU ARE
TAKING THE QUESTIONS RIGHT
OUT OF MY MOUTH.
DO YOU HAVE ANY IDEA WHAT
THAT IS OR IS IT JUST ENOUGH
TO SEND THAT SIGNAL?
>> WELL, I THINK IT'S
IMPORTANT TO TAKE THE
ACTIONS.
AND THERE MAY BE SOME THINGS
THAT CAN FOLLOW.
OF COURSE ON THE CHINESE
SIDE, WHAT WE HAVE TO WAIT
AND SEE WHAT THE CHINESE
RESPONSE IS.
AND WHETHER OR NOT THEY TRY
TO RETALIATE WITH IN SOME
FORM OR ANOTHER.
RIGHT NOW TODAY THEY, OF
COURSE, SAID IT'S ALL A
BUNCH OF LIES.
CHINESE GOVERNMENT SPOKESMAN
SAID THAT.
AND THEY DID CANCEL OUR
CYBERDIALOGUE THAT IS
SUPPOSED TO ENABLE US TO
COME UP WITH SHARED
UNDERSTANDING OF THE RULES
OF THE GAME.
BUT THE PROBLEM IS WE DON'T
HAVE A SHARED UNDERSTANDING
OF THE RULES OF THE GAME.
>> Ifill: LAURA GALANTE, THE
KINDS OF COMPANIES WHICH
WERE ALLEGEDLY TARGETED IN
THIS, STEEL COMPANIES,
STEELWORKERS UNION, ALCOA,
WESTINGHOUSE, WHAT ARE THE
SIGNIFICANCE OF THOSE
COMPANIES?
>> IT WASN'T SURPRISING TO
US TO SEE THAT THESE
MANUFACTURING COMPANIES,
PARTICULARLY IN ADVANCED
MANUFACTURING WERE THOSE
THAT WERE TARGETED AND
DISCUSSED IN THE INDICTMENT.
WHAT WE'VE SEEN IS DATA
FACTS CLOSELY ALIGNED TO THE
TYPES OF EMERGING INDUSTRIES
THAT WE SEE CHINA DISCUSS AS
THE CORE PIECES DRIVING
THEIR ECONOMY.
SO WHAT WE'LL SEE IS WHERE
CHINA DISCUSSES
BIOTECHNOLOGY AS A CORE
INITIATIVE, WE'LL SEE MANY
COMPANIES COME FROM THAT
SECTOR WHETHER IT BE
PHARMACEUTICALS AS A
SUBSECTOR THERE, OR ALSO
AEROSPACE AND DEFENSE, OF
COURSE A COMMON TARGET.
>> WHEN YOU HEAR AS SUSAN
SHIRK WAS JUST SAYING, WHEN
YOU HEAR THE UNITED STATES
SAY WE'RE GOING THREATEN YOU,
THEY HAVE BEEN SAYING THIS
FOR A WHILE.
HAS THERE BEEN ANY EVIDENCE
THAT THESE THREATS HAVE
BEGUN, THAT THERE HAS BEEN A
PULLBACK ON THE PART OF
CHINA?
>> HERE'S WHAT WE SAW BEHIND
THE SCENES ON THE NETWORK
SIDE.
AFTER WE RELEASED THE REPORT
LAST YEAR DETAILING THIS
TYPE OF ACTIVITY, WE SAW A
LONG PAUSE IN OPERATIONS
FROM THESE DIFFERENT GROUPS
BASED IN CHINA.
WHEN THOSE GROUPS DID COME
BACK TO THEIR ACTIVITY LEVEL
LAST FALL, WE SAW THEM
CHANGE THE INFRASTRUCTURE
THAT THEY WERE USING TO
STAGE THESE DIFFERENT
INTRUSIONS.
SO WHILE THE PUBLIC VERSION
WAS A DENIAL OF THE
ACQUISITIONS THAT WERE BEING
DISCUSSED, BEHIND THE SCENES
IT WAS A VERY DIFFERENT
STORY.
>> FINAL WORD, SUSAN SHIRK,
BRIEFLY S THIS A NECESSARY
FIGHT FOR THE U.S. TO PICK?
>> WELL, I AM AFRAID THAT IT
IS.
BECAUSE OUR COMPANIES HAVE
REALLY SUFFERED VERY INTENSE
CYBERATTACKS FROM CHINA IN
RECENT YEARS.
THEY ARE AFRAID, FRANKLY, OF
RAISING THESE ISSUES
DIRECTLY WITH THE CHINESE
GOVERNMENT AND THEY LOOK TO
THE U.S. GOVERNMENT TO
DEFEND THEIR INTERESTS AND
TO DEFEND THIS NORM.
THAT CYBERATTACKS SHOULDN'T
BE USED FOR COMMERCIAL
ADVANTAGE.
BUT THE PROBLEM IS THAT
CHINESE SYSTEM IS VERY
DIFFERENT.
FOR THEM THE ADVANTAGES OF
THEIR OWN STATE-OWNED
ENTERPRISES ARE ALL PART OF
NATIONAL SECURITY.
>> OKAY.
WE'LL BE WAITING TO SEE IF
MORE SHOES DROP.
SUSAN SHIRK NOW AT UC SAN
DIEGO, LAURA GA LANT OF
MANDIANT AND FIREYE.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> THANKS A LOT.
>> Ifill: WITH UKRAINE'S
NATIONAL ELECTIONS LESS THAN A
WEEK AWAY, RUSSIAN PRESIDENT
VLADIMIR PUTIN TODAY MADE A
MAJOR BUT UNSUBSTANTIATED
ANNOUNCEMENT ABOUT HIS TROOPS IN
THE AREA.
CHIEF FOREIGN AFFAIRS
CORRESPONDENT MARGARET WARNER IS
IN DONETSK AND REPORTS THAT
UNCERTAINTY HAS BECOME THE NEW
NORMAL IN EASTERN UKRAINE.
>> Warner: FOR MONTHS, 40,000
RUSSIAN TROOPS, BACKED BY TANKS
AND HEAVY ARMORED VEHICLES, HAVE
BEEN PATROLLING NEAR THE BORDER
WITH UKRAINE.
BUT THE KREMLIN SAID TODAY THAT
PRESIDENT VLADIMIR PUTIN HAS
ORDERED THEM BACK TO THEIR HOME
BASES.
SO FAR, THOUGH, N.A.T.O.
SECRETARY GENERAL ANDERS FOGH
RASMUSSEN SAID HE SEES NO SIGN
OF MOVEMENT.
>> I THINK IT'S THE THIRD PUTIN
STATEMENT ON WITHDRAWAL OF
RUSSIAN TROOPS, BUT SO FAR WE
HAVEN'T SEEN ANY WITHDRAWAL AT
ALL.
I STRONGLY REGRET THAT, BECAUSE
A WITHDRAWAL OF RUSSIAN TROOPS
WOULD BE A FIRST IMPORTANT
CONTRIBUTION TO DE-ESCALATING
THE CRISIS.
>> Warner: HERE IN DONESTSK, THE
CAPITAL OF THE EASTERN UKRAINIAN
PROVINCE OF THE SAME NAME,
REACTION IN CENTRAL LENIN SQUARE
WAS MIXED TO THIS LATEST PUTIN
PRONOUNCEMENT.
>> I DON'T TRUST PUTIN.
NO ONE TRUSTS HIM, BECAUSE HE
LIES.
HE ONCE TOLD THE SAME THING BUT
HE DIDN'T TAKE AWAY FORCES.
>> Warner: BUT URIY PASECHNIKOV
SAID THE TROOPS HE WORRIED ABOUT
WERE UKRAINIAN.
WHO HAVE COME INTO THIS RESTIVE
EASTERN REGION.
>> TROOPS FROM KIEV WE SEE AND
CAN TRACE WHAT IS HAPPENING IN
SLAVYANSK, KRAMATORSK, MARIUPOL
AND ODESSA.
WE PERFECTLY SEE IT.
AND WE DON'T SEE PUTIN.
>> Warner: JUST UP THE STREET,
OUTSIDE THE REGIONAL GOVERNMENT
BUILDING NOW OCCUPIED BY PRO-
RUSSIAN SEPARATISTS, WE MET
YOUNG YEVGENIY.
THE FORMER UKRAINIAN SOLDIER
WOULDN'T GIVE US HIS LAST NAME
OR LET HIS FACE BE FULLY SHOWN.
BUT HE TOLD US HE JOINED THE
BARRICADES BECAUSE HE BELIEVES
DONESTK WOULD HAVE A BRIGHTER
ECONOMIC FUTURE IF JOINED WITH
RUSSIA.
>> WE ARE WAITING FOR THE
RUSSIANS TO HELP US.
>> Warner: IF REPORTS ARE RIGHT,
IF RUSSIA PULLED FORCES BACK
FROM THE BORDER, WILL THAT
WEAKEN YOUR POSITION?
>> ( translated ): NO.
WE ARE SO PRESSURED BY ECONOMIC
INSTABILITY THAT WE ARE
DETERMINED TO CHANGE OUR
SITUATION.
>> Warner: AND DESPITE LUNCHTIME
SCENES OF SEEMING URBAN
TRANQUILITY, TENSIONS REMAIN RAW
HERE.
JUST 100 YARDS FROM THE FRONT OF
THE OCCUPIED GOVERNMENT
BUILDING, HEAVILY-ARMED MASKED
MEN IN UNMARKED UNIFORMS STOPPED
TWO VEHICLES AND HAULED OUT
SEVERAL YOUNG MEN IN DESERT
FATIGUES, SEARCHED THEM AND
TOOK THEM AWAY.
IT WAS UNCLEAR WHETHER THIS WAS
A TRAINING EXERCISE OR, AS SOME
BYSTANDERS SPECULATED, IT WAS AN
OPERATION APPREHENDING UKRAINIAN
NATIONALISTS FROM WESTERN
UKRAINE.
LOCAL SECURITY AUTHORITIES ARE
STILL PERFORMING NORMAL POLICE
DUTIES, BUT SEEM OVERWHELMED IN
THE FACE OF THE SEPARATISTS'
CHALLENGE.
THIS MORNING, GENERAL KONSTANTIN
NIKOLAEVICH, COMMANDER OF ALL
POLICE IN THE DONETSK REGION,
ADMITTED AS MUCH.
HE CONCEDED WHAT HE CALLED
TERRORIST SEPARATIST ELEMENTS
HAD TAKEN CONTROL OF TWO SMALLER
CITIES, SLAVYANSK AND
KRAMATORSK, NORTH OF DONETSK
SO THEY'RE IN CHARGE?
>> ( translated ): YES, THEY ARE
WHOLLY CONTROLLING THE SITUATION
THERE.
THEY TOOK OVER THE POLICE
DEPARTMENTS IN SLOVYANSK AND
KRAMATORSK AND AT THE MOMENT ARE
PRESENT THERE.
>> Warner: WHY CAN'T YOU TAKE
THEM BACK?
>> I THINK IT'S MILITARY
RESPONSIBILITY NOW AND NOT THE
POLICE.
FUNCTIONS OF THE POLICE IS
SECURING THE PUBLIC ORDER AND
CRIME INVESTIGATION.
THERE ARE ARMED MAN.
THIS SHOULD BE SOLVED BY THE
ANTITERRORIST CENTER.
>> Warner: WE ASKED WHY HIS OWN
MEN CAN'T AT LEAST
RECLAIM THE OCCUPIED DONETSK
REGIONAL GOVERNMENT BUILDING
NEARBY.
>> ( translated ): THE PROBLEM
IS NOT HOW TO CLEAR THE BUILDING
BUT HOW TO HOLD IT AFTER THAT.
WE LACK THE INTERIOR MILITARY
FORCES TO PREVENT THE
DESTRUCTIVE ELEMENTS FROM
RETAKING IT.
>> Warner: SO YOU'RE SAYING THE
LOCAL FORCES CANNOT HANDLE THIS
SITUATION ON THEIR OWN?
>> ( translated ): I CAN CONTROL
THE OVERALL SITUATION BUT NOT TO
FREE THE ADMINISTRATION
BUILDINGS.
WE HAVE ENOUGH WEAPONS BUT FOR
23 YEARS WE DIDN'T HAVE TO USE
BUILDING-CLEARING SKILLS.
>> Warner: LATER, AT A LATE
AFTERNOON, POLICE SHIFT CHANGE,
THE CHALLENGE FACING
NIKOLAEVICH'S LOCAL FORCES WAS
APPARENT.
HIS MEN WERE MOSTLY-ARMED WITH
MACE AND NIGHT STICKS.
ONLY TWO CARRIED ANY TRUE
WEAPONS AT ALL.
>> Ifill: I SPOKE WITH MARGARET
A SHORT TIME AGO.
MARGARET, IT'S GOOD TO SEE
YOU, YOU WERE IN EASTERN
UKRAINE JUST EIGHT WEEKS AGO,
HOW HAVE THINGS CHANGED?
>> Warner: DEFINITELY
CHANGED, GWEN.
I MEAN THERE ARE A LOT OF
RUMORS TODAY, FOR INSTANCE
AT ONE POINT WE WERE TOLD
THAT THE RAILWAY STATION WAS
SEIZED BY SEPARATISTS.
WHEN WE GOT THERE, THEY
HADN'T BEEN BUT THE
ADMINISTRATION BUILDING HAS.
SO THAT SHOWED THE
SEPARATISTS CAN PRETTY MUCH
MOVE AT WILL.
NUMBER TWO, WHEN WE GOT TO
THAT OCCUPIED GOVERNMENT
BUILDING THAT'S JUST WHERE
WE HAD INTERVIEWED THIS
WEALTHY OLYGARCH GOVERNOR
APPOINTED BY KEY EVE.
HE BOASTED HOW THEY HAD
TAKEN BACK THE BUILDING.
NOW COMPLETELY FILLED BY
RUSSIAN OCCUPIERS OR LOCAL
RUSSIAN SYMPATHIZING
OCCUPIERS.
AND ON THE TOP FLOOR THERE
WERE DEFINITELY GUYS WITH
GUNS SPEAKING IN TRUE
RUSSIAN ACCENTS.
NUMBER 3 AND WAS OMINOUSLY
ONE OF THE LAST REMAINING
ELECTORAL COMMISSION OFFICES
PREPARING FOR THE SUNDAY
ELECTION, DECLARED TODAY IT
WAS SHUTTING DOWN AFTER
HAVING GUYS COME IN,
THREATEN THEM, STEAL THEIR
COMPUTERS.
AND HAVE A-- HAVING HAD A
NEARBY OFFICE SHUTDOWN.
SO NONE OF THIS IS GREAT AND
FEELS A LITTLE MENACING AS
IT COMES TO NEXT SUNDAY'S
ELECTION.
>> Ifill: LET'S TALK ABOUT
NEXT SUNDAY'S ELECTION, HOW
DO THEY ARE ARE THEY TAKING
ANY STEPS TO INSURANCE THAT
IT WILL BE SEEN AS
LEGITIMATE?
>> WELL, WHAT THEY TRIED TO
DO, WAS TO GO AHEAD AND
CONDUCT AN ELECTION NORMALLY
HERE AS UKRAINE HAS DONE
EVERY FOUR YEARS OR SO.
SO THEY KNOW HOW TO DO IT.
BUT THE CHANCES I THINK LOOK
DIMMER BY THE DAY.
YOU NOT ONLY HAVE THE BLUNT
COMMENTS FROM THE ELECTORAL
COMMISSION HEAD TODAY BUT
ONE OF THE PEOPLE MOST
INTIMATELY INVOLVED WITH
THIS EUROPEAN LEAD
NEGOTIATION THAT'S GOING ON,
TOLL ME BY PHONE TODAY HE'S
BEEN HERE IN DONETSK
YESTERDAY, AN HE HAD BEEN
TOLD AND HAD SEEN THAT ONE
OF THE OFFICES WHERE THEY'RE
GOING TO ACTUALLY COUNT
VOTES, ALL THE COMPUTERS
HAVE BEEN SMASHED.
SO HE SAID EVEN IF PEOPLE DO
VOTE HE SAID THEIR VOTES
REALLY WON'T BE ABLE TO BE
COUNTED.
FINALLY TODAY WHAT WAS CLEAR
FROM TALKING TO PEOPLE WAS
THAT HOW YOU VOTE IS GOING
TO BE DETERMINED COMPLETELY
BY WHERE YOUR SYMPATHIES
ARE.
SO FOR INSTANCE PEOPLE IN
THE OCCUPIED GOVERNMENT
BUILDING, PRESIDENT PRO
RUSSIAN PEOPLE SAID OH, THEY
VOTED IN LAST SUNDAY'S
REFERENDUM, THE ONE THAT WAS
EIGHT DAYS AGO FOR
INDEPENDENCE.
THEY WEREN'T GOING TO SHOW
UP SUNDAY.
THEN ALL THE PEOPLE WE
TALKED TO WITHOUT SAID THEY
WANTED TO VOTE FOR A UNITED
UKRAINE DIDN'T PARTICIPATE
LAST SUNDAY.
THEY ARE GOING TO
PARTICIPATE THIS SUNDAY.
SO ONE MAN IN THE PARK SAID
TO US, YOU KNOW, YOU IN THE
WEST, I THINK YOU READ THIS
PRESS AND THINK EVERYONE
HERE IS PRO RUSSIAN.
WE'RE ACTUALLY A LOT OF US
WANT TO BE PART OF THE
UNITED UKRAINE AND A PEW
RESEARCH POLL FOUND THAT 70%
OF THE PEOPLE HERE ARE OF
THAT MIND.
BUT 9 DANGER IT SEEMS TO ME
NOW IS THAT THE VOTE NEXT
SUNDAY, WHATEVER DOES OCCUR
HERE COULD BE SEEN JUST AS
IL LEGITIMATE OR AT LEAST
CHARACTERIZED AT IL
LEGITIMATE AS LAST SUNDAYS.
AN THAT'S TO THE GREAT FOR
THIS GOVERNMENT THAT IS
HOPING THAT THIS VOTE WILL
RESTORE A SENSE OF
LEGITIMATE-- LEGITIMACY AND
UNION IN THE COUNTRY.
>> ARE THE PEOPLE YOU TALK
TO IN THE STREET ENGAGED IN
THIS WHOLE PROCESS OR IS
THIS LEFT FOR THE POLITICIAN
AND THE ELITE?
>> BOTH, GWEN.
ON THE ONE HAND A LOT OF
PEOPLE ARE NOT TERRIBLY
POLITICAL BUT THEIR LIFE HAS
CLEARLY BEEN ELECTED.
WHEN WE WERE HEAR BEFORE THE
DEMONSTRATIONS WERE KIND OF
REAL ACTUAL -- RITUALISTIC,
AND WOULD COME FOR THE
WEEKEND AND GO HOME.
OTHER PEOPLE WOULD BE OUT
AND ABOUT SHOPPING, LAST
NIGHT WHEN WE ARRIVED IT WAS
A BAUMY NIGHT.
PEOPLE WOULD BE IN
RESTAURANT ITS, INSTEAD
THEY'RE NOT.
A WOMAN WHO WAS ON THE PLANE
WITH US FROM KIEV SAID I'M
LANDING AT 8:30 P.M., IT'S
GOING TO BE DARK.
I'M GOING STRAIGHT HOME AND
STAYING INSIDE ALL NIGHT.
I NEVER GO OUT AT NIGHT
BECAUSE I'M AFRAID.
AND AGAIN THAT IS ALL A VERY
DISHEARTENING, DISCOURAGING
SIGN FOR THE U.S., THE
EUROPEANS AND THE GOVERNMENT
IN KIEV, THAT HOPES TO FIND
SOME RESOLUTION TO THIS
CONFLICT.
>> Ifill: MARGARET, WE'RE
LOOKING FOR YOUR REPORT, SO
STAY SAFE.
>> Warner: WILL DO GWEN.
THANKS.
>> Ifill: AFTER MORE THAN A
DECADE OF EXPERIMENTING, CAR
MAKERS ARE PLANNING TO RELEASE A
NEW GENERATION OF HYDROGEN-
POWERED VEHICLES IN CALIFORNIA.
THE STATE HAS MADE A MAJOR
COMMITMENT TO ALTERNATIVE ENERGY
SOURCES.
BUT THE NEW CARS FACE AN
UNCERTAIN FUTURE.
OUR PARTNERS AT K.Q.E.D. SAN
FRANCISCO FILED THIS REPORT,
NARRATED BY SCOTT SHAFER AND
PRODUCED BY SHERAZ SADIQ.
>> Reporter: LIKE MOST PEOPLE,
BILL HOLLOWAY COMMUTES TO WORK,
DRIVING 75 MILES FROM HIS HOME
IN ALAMEDA, CALIFORNIA.
BUT THEN AGAIN, MOST PEOPLE
DON'T MAKE THEIR COMMUTE IN A
HYDROGEN FUEL CELL VEHICLE.
>> I DRIVE A VERY RARE CAR.
THERE'S ONLY A HANDFUL ON LEASE
HERE IN NORTHERN CALIFORNIA.
>> Reporter: THIS RARE CAR USES
HYDROGEN INSTEAD OF GASOLINE AND
EMITS ONLY WATER VAPOR INSTEAD
OF HARMFUL POLLUTION.
>> THE ECONOMY IN THIS MERCEDES
IS GREAT.
I AVERAGE 58 MILES PER KILOGRAM
OF HYDROGEN WHICH IS THE SAME AS
58 MILES PER GALLON OF GAS.
I PICKED A HYDROGEN CAR BECAUSE
I WAS ABLE TO DRIVE ONE OF THE
EARLY EXPERIMENTAL MODELS AND
I'M KIND OF A GEEK.
>> Reporter: CAR MAKERS HAVE
SPENT MORE THAN A DECADE AND
INVESTED BILLIONS OF DOLLARS TO
DEVELOP THE TECHNOLOGY.
CATHERINE DUNWOODY, EXECUTIVE
DIRECTOR OF THE CALIFORNIA FUEL
CELL PARTNERSHIP, THINKS THAT
INVESTMENT IS ABOUT TO PAY OFF.
>> HAVING BEEN INVOLVED IN THIS
NOW FOR 15 YEARS AND SEEING THE
EVOLUTION OF THE TECHNOLOGY, YOU
KNOW, THESE GUYS ARE SERIOUS.
THEY REALLY SEE THE FUEL CELL
VEHICLE AS THE FUTURE OF
AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY.
>> Reporter: IN 2014, HYUNDAI
WILL RELEASE A NEW FUEL CELL
S.U.V. IN CALIFORNIA, FOLLOWED
BY NEW MODELS FROM TOYOTA AND
HONDA IN 2015.
BUT EVEN WITH THE ROLLOUT OF
THESE NEW HYDROGEN CARS, DRIVERS
MAY HIT A ROADBLOCK WHEN IT'S
TIME TO REFUEL.
>> MY BIGGEST COMPLAINT ABOUT
THIS FUEL CELL CAR AND FUEL CELL
CARS IN GENERAL, IS THERE'S
NOWHERE TO FILL THEM UP.
>> Reporter: FOR NOW, THERE'S
JUST ONE PLACE HOLLOWAY CAN GO
TO REFUEL HIS CAR IN NORTHERN
CALIFORNIA, AT THIS STATION IN
EMERYVILLE, OWNED AND OPERATED
BY AC TRANSIT.
TWELVE OF IT'S PUBLIC BUSES RUN
ON HYDROGEN.
AT THE HYDROGEN PUMP, FILLING UP
IS REMARKABLY SIMILAR TO FILLING
UP AT A REGULAR GAS STATION.
>> IT ONLY TAKES FOUR OR FIVE
MINUTES TO FILL, THE SAME AS
FILLING UP A REGULAR GASOLINE
CAR, SO I HAD TO MAKE NO
ADJUSTMENTS AT ALL.
>> Reporter: ON A PER-MILE
BASIS, HYDROGEN COSTS ABOUT AS
MUCH AS GASOLINE.
AND LIKE GASOLINE, HYDROGEN IS
FLAMMABLE.
BUT IT DISPERSES QUICKLY IF IT
LEAKS BECAUSE IT IS LIGHTER THAN
AIR.
>> I NEVER WORRIED ABOUT THE
SAFETY OF THE HYDROGEN.
THE HYDROGEN TANKS ARE BURIED IN
THE MIDDLE, IN THE SAFEST PLACE
IN THE CAR.
>> Reporter: THE TANKS ALSO
STORE HYDROGEN AT HIGH PRESSURE,
A RECENT INNOVATION THAT HAS
DOUBLED THE DRIVING RANGE OF
FUEL CELL CARS, SAYS TIM LIPMAN,
CO-DIRECTOR OF U.C. BERKELEY'S
TRANSPORTATION SUSTAINABILITY
RESEARCH CENTER.
>> SO WHAT'S VERY DIFFERENT NOW
THAN SEVERAL YEARS AGO, IS THAT
WE'RE ABLE TO STORE A LOT MORE
HYDROGEN ONBOARD THE VEHICLE,
GIVING US A DRIVING RANGE OF 250
OR EVEN 300 MILES.
>> Reporter: MOST BATTERY
ELECTRIC CARS CAN ONLY TRAVEL 80
OR SO MILES BEFORE NEEDING TO BE
RECHARGED FOR SEVERAL HOURS.
A FUEL CELL CAR ALSO NEEDS
ELECTRICITY TO POWER ITS
ELECTRIC MOTOR BUT HERE, THE
ELECTRICITY IS MADE ON-BOARD,
FROM HYDROGEN, INSIDE A FUEL
CELL STACK.
>> HERE IS A FUEL CELL STACK
THAT IS VERY SIMILAR TO WHAT
YOU'D SEE IN A FUEL CELL POWERED
CAR.
EACH CELL HAS A SPECIAL MEMBRANE
MATERIAL IN THE MIDDLE, THAT
SPLITS THE HYDROGEN MOLECULES
INTO PROTONS AND ELECTRONS.
THE PROTONS ARE NOW CHARGED
PARTICLES CALLED IONS, THAT CAN
GO THROUGH THIS MEMBRANE
MATERIAL.
BUT THE ELECTRONS CANNOT.
>> Reporter: SO THE ELECTRONS GO
AROUND THE MEMBRANE AND GENERATE
ELECTRICITY.
OXYGEN FROM THE AIR ALSO FLOWS
IN AND BINDS WITH THE ELECTRONS
AND IONS TO PRODUCE WATER AND
HEAT, THE ONLY TAILPIPE
EMISSIONS.
BUT LIKE ELECTRIC CARS, FUEL
CELL CARS STILL NEED A FUEL
SOURCE, WHICH CAN PRODUCE
EMISSIONS.
>> HYDROGEN FUEL CELL VEHICLES
CAN BE ZERO EMISSION VEHICLES.
BUT THE ONLY WAY YOU CAN DO THAT
IS TO USE A RENEWABLE SOURCE FOR
THE HYDROGEN, AND THAT COULD BE
SOLAR POWER OR WIND POWER.
>> Reporter: STILL, MOST
HYDROGEN GENERATED IN THE U.S.
IS MADE WITH METHANE, A NATURAL
GAS.
>> EVEN THOUGH THERE'S SOME C02
PRODUCED FROM THAT PROCESS, IT'S
STILL ABOUT 50% LESS THAN
BURNING GASOLINE IN A COMBUSTION
ENGINE.
>> Reporter: IN OCTOBER 2013,
CALIFORNIA, OREGON, NEW YORK AND
FIVE OTHER STATES PLEDGED TO PUT
MORE THAN THREE MILLION ZERO-
EMISSION VEHICLES ON THEIR ROADS
BY 2025.
WITH THE NATION'S LARGEST CAR
MARKET AND ITS TOUGH AIR QUALITY
STANDARDS, CALIFORNIA IS
CRITICAL TO THE SUCCESS OF FUEL
CELL CARS AND THE INFRASTRUCTURE
THE CARS REQUIRE TO TAKE OFF.
>> I CAN'T GO ON A LONG TRIP.
IF THEY HAD MORE FUELING
STATIONS, THEY WOULD HAVE MORE
CARS THEY COULD SELL.
IF THERE WERE MORE CARS, THEY
WOULD HAVE MORE FUELING
STATIONS.
WE HAVE A CHICKEN AND EGG
PROBLEM.
>> Reporter: SO IN 2013,
GOVERNOR JERRY BROWN SIGNED A
NEW LAW THAT PROVIDES $20
MILLION A YEAR TO BUILD AT LEAST
100 HYDROGEN REFUELING STATIONS
IN CALIFORNIA BY 2024.
NINETEEN NEW STATIONS ARE
ALREADY IN DEVELOPMENT.
>> THE STATE FUNDING HELPS
OFFSET THE RISK TO THESE SMALL
AND MEDIUM-SIZED BUSINESSES TO
MAKE THIS INVESTMENT, TO MOVE
FORWARD WITH HYDROGEN FUEL
TECHNOLOGY.
>> Reporter: BUT JAMES SWEENEY,
A STANFORD UNIVERSITY EXPERT ON
ENERGY POLICY, QUESTIONS THE USE
OF PUBLIC DOLLARS TO HELP BUILD
HYDROGEN STATIONS.
>> THE STATE WANTS TO BUILD
HYDROGEN FUELING INFRASTRUCTURE
WITH NO KNOWLEDGE AS TO WHETHER
THERE'S GOING TO BE A
SIGNIFICANT NUMBER OF VEHICLES
THAT WILL USE THOSE.
IT'S A RECIPE FOR RISKING
TAXPAYER FUNDS.
FOR WHAT MAY BE A TOTAL WASTE.
>> Reporter: AND THIS ISN'T THE
FIRST TIME CALIFORNIA HAS TRIED
TO PROMOTE A VISION OF A
HYDROGEN HIGHWAY.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
ALL ACROSS OUR HIGHWAY SYSTEM,
HUNDREDS OF HYDROGEN FUELING
STATIONS WILL BE BUILT AND BE
USED BY THOUSANDS OF CARS AND
TRUCKS AND BUSES.
>> Reporter: ARNOLD
SCHWARZENEGGER'S PLAN RELIED ON
PRIVATE INVESTORS TO HELP BUILD
UP TO 100 HYDROGEN STATIONS BY
2010.
BUT THE PLAN FAILED.
>> I THINK THE ORIGINAL PLAN
TIMING WAS AMBITIOUS, AND I
THINK THAT THE CARS REALLY HAVE
COME SO FAR SINCE THE 2004 PLAN
WAS ESTABLISHED.
>> Reporter: EVEN SO, WILL
DRIVERS CHOOSE HYDROGEN WHEN
ELECTRIC CARS AND OTHER CLEAN
VEHICLES ARE ALREADY ON THE
ROAD?
>> WHEN PEOPLE GET TO TEST DRIVE
THESE CARS, THEY'LL BE VERY
IMPRESSED BY THE PERFORMANCE, BY
HOW SIMILAR THEY ARE TO
CONVENTIONAL VEHICLES.
>> Reporter: WHILE DRIVING THESE
CARS MAY BE EASY, BOTH FUEL CELL
ADVOCATES AND AUTO MAKERS KNOW
THAT THEIR SUCCESS DEPENDS ON
BUILDING MORE REFUELING STATIONS
SOON.
>> Ifill: NOW, A CONVERSATION
WITH THE SENIOR SENATOR FROM
MASSACHUSETTS ABOUT HER NEW
BOOK, "A FIGHTING CHANCE."
JUDY WOODRUFF RECORDED THIS
INTERVIEW LAST WEEK.
>> Woodruff: A PROFESSOR OF
BANKRUPTCY LAW AT HARVARD
UNIVERSITY, A CONSUMER
PROTECTION ADVOCATE, THE
CHAIR OF THE CONGRESSIONAL
PANEL CREATED TO OVERSEA THE
TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF
PROGRAM AFTER THE 2008
FINANCIAL IMPLOSION.
AND THEN AFTER 20 YEARS IN
AND OUT OF WASHINGTON, A
SUCCESSFUL TURN TO ELECTORAL
POLITICS.
AND NOW ELIZABETH WARREN HAS
JUST PUBLISHED HER MEMOIR A
FIGHTING CHANCE.
SENATOR ELIZABETH WARREN,
WELCOME TO THE PROGRAM.
>> THANK YOU, IT'S GOOD TO
BE HERE.
>> SO WE'RE USED TO SEEING
POLITICIANS WRITE A BOOK
WHEN THEY WANT TO GET
ELECTED TO OFFICE.
BUT YOU JUST PRETTY RECENTLY
HAVE BEEN ELECTED TO THE
SENATE.
YOU SAY YOU'RE NOT RUNNING
FOR PRESIDENT.
>> I'M NOT RUNNING FOR
PRESIDENT.
>> Woodruff: WHY SO WRITE
THE BOOK?
>> I SPENT MY WHOLE CAREER
STUDYING WHAT'S HAPPENING IT
AMERICA'S MIDDLE CLASS.
AND LATER IN THOSE AREAS
TRYING TO FIGHT BACK.
AMERICA'S MIDDLE CLASS IS
JUST GETTING HAMMERED.
THE LEGS ARE BEING TAKEN OUT
FROM UNDERNEATH TELEPHONE.
AND PART OF THE REASON FOR
THAT IS THAT THERE IS A REAL
TILT IN WASHINGTON.
POLICIES THAT WORK FOR THE
RICH AND POWERFUL AND NOT SO
MUCH FOR EVERYBODY ELSE.
I KNEW ABOUT WHAT IT MEANT
TO GROW NEWSPAPER A AMERICA
THAT WAS INVESTING IN OUR
KIDS, THAT WAS INVESTING IN
THE FUTURE.
I FEEL LIKE WE'VE LOST OUR
WAY FROM THAT.
AND THE REASON I SAY THAT IS
I TELL THIS AS THE EYE
WITNESS ACCOUNT OF WHAT
HAPPENED WHEN I WENT TO
WASHINGTON AND WHAT I SAW
AND WHAT I FOUGHT AGAINST.
>> Woodruff: WHAT IS AN
EXAMPLE OF ONE OF THE WAYS
YOU THINK THE WORKING CLASS,
THE MIDDLE CLASS IN THIS
COUNTRY HAS IT WORSE TODAY
THAN THEY USED TO.
>> OH, I WILL GIVE YOU AN
EXAMPLE RIGHT OFF THE TOP.
SO MY DAUGHTER-- WOULD HAVE
HAD A HEART ATTACK WHEN I
WAS LITTLE, I WAS 12, MY
BROTHERS FROM IN THE
MILITARY.
WHEN A LONG PERIOD OF TIME
WITH NO INCOME COMING IN,
THE BILLS PILED UP, WE LOST
THE FAMILY STATION WAGON, WE
WERE RIGHT ON THE EDGE OF
LOSING OUR HOME.
MY MOTHER WAS 50 YEARS OLD,
A STAY AT HOME MOM WHEN SHE
PULLED HER BEST DRESS OUT OF
THE CLOSET, PUT ON HER HIGH
HEELS AND WALKED OVER TO THE
SEARS AND GOT A MINIMUM WAGE
JOB.
IN THE 1960s, A MINIMUM WAGE
JOB WOULD KEEP A FAMILY OF
THREE AFLOAT.
AND THAT'S WHAT IT DID FOR
US AND IT SAVED OUR HOME.
TODAY A MINIMUM WAGE JOB
WILL NOT KEEP A MOTHER AND
ONE BABY OUT OF POVERTY.
THAT IS A SHIFT.
WE'VE LOST THAT PROTECTION
EVEN FOR THOSE WORKING RIGHT
AT THE BOTTOM.
>> Woodruff: AND RIGHT NOW
TODAY YOU HAVE PEOPLE
ARGUING AGAINST THE MINIMUM
WAGE SAYING IF YOU RAISE THE
MINIMUM WAGE 10.10 WHICH IS
WHAT THE PRESIDENT HAS ASKED
FOR, THAT YOU WILL COST JOBS
BECAUSE EMPLOYERS WILL END
UP LAYING PEOPLE OFF.
>> I HAVE TWO RESPONSES TO
THAT.
THE FIRST IS THE DATA ABOUT
WHETHER IT WILL COST A FEW
JOBS OR NOT COST A FEW JOBS
IS REALLY, IT'S VERY MIXED
ON THE NUMBERS.
BUT WHAT WE DO KNOW IS THAT
IF WE RAISE THE MINIMUM WAGE
TO 10.10 AN HOUR, THAT 14
MILLION CHILDREN WOULD SEE
THEIR ECONOMIC FORTUNES
IMPROVE BECAUSE MOM OR DAD
WOULD BE MAKING A LITTLE
MORE MONEY AND HAVE A BETTER
SHOT AT GETTING THAT FAMILY
SOME ECONOMIC SECURITY.
>> Woodruff: YOU WRITE A
FAIR AMOUNT IN THE BOOK,
SENATOR WARREN, ABOUT HOW
THE BLAME, MUCH OF THE BLAME
LIES WITH THE BIG BANKS.
YOU TALK ABOUT THE NEED TO
BREAK UP THESE BANK, THE
POWER THEY HAVE.
YOU WRITE ABOUT WASHINGTON
POLITICIANS WHO PROTECT THE
BIG BANKS.
WHAT WOULD YOU DO ABOUT ALL
OF THIS?
>> WELL, THERE ARE A LOT OF
PIECES THAT WE COULD WORK
ON.
FOR EXAMPLE I HAVE A BILL
PENDING RIGHT NOW IN THE
UNITED STATES SENATE WITH
SENATOR JOHN McCAIN FOR
GLASS-STEAGALL.
AND THAT'S THE CARRY-OVER
FROM THE BILL THAT CAME OUT
OF THE GREAT DEPRESSION THAT
SAID LOOK, YOU WANT TO BE A
BANK, THEN BE BORG.
DO CHECKING ACCOUNTS,
SAVINGS ACCOUNTS.
THAT'S WHAT BANKS ARE.
AND IF YOU WANT TO DO
HIGH-RISK INVESTMENT, GO TO
WALL STREET, BE WHAT IS
CALLED AN INVESTMENT BANK.
DO SOMETHING DIFFERENT.
CREATE THAT SEPARATION.
IT MAKES BANKS SAFER AND
LESS LIKELY THAT WE'RE GOING
TO HAVE TO BAIL THEM OUT.
>> Woodruff: BUT DO YOU
THINK THERE IS A REALISTIC
CHANCE THAT SOMETHING LIKE
THAT IS GOING TO HAPPEN IN
THIS ENVIRONMENT?
>> I GOT TO TELL YOU, WE
STILL HAVE A LOT OF RISK IN
THE SYSTEM.
YOU KNOW, YOU TALKED ABOUT
DURING THE FINANCIAL CRISIS,
WE WERE TOLD THESE BANKS ARE
TOO BIG TO FAIL.
TODAY THE FIVE LARGEST
FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS ARE
38% BIGGER THAN THEY WERE
BACK IN 2008 WHEN THEY WERE
TOO BIG TO FAIL.
WE ARE STILL TAKING ON RIGHT
NOW THERE IS STILL A LOT OF
RISK IN THE FINANCIAL
SYSTEM.
SOME OF THESE BIGGEST
FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS ARE
OUT THERE TRADING IN
COMMODITIES.
THEY'RE BUYING OIL TANKERS.
THIS IS NOT A FINANCIAL
SYSTEM THAT HAS CALMED DOWN
AND IS THERE TO SERVE THE
AMERICAN PEOPLE.
LET ME JUST ASK YOU ONE OF
THE REVIEWERS I READ WHO
COMPLIMENTED MANY OF THE
THINGS YOU WROTE IN THE BOOK
SAID EVEN THOUGH IF YOU WERE
TO DO A NUMBER OF THE THINGS
YOU RECOMMEND, YOU STILL
AMONG OTHER THINGS WOULDN'T
RAISE MEDIAN FAMILY INCOME
IN THIS COUNTRY.
WHO DOES WASHINGTON WORK FOR?
>> RIGHT NOW WASHINGTON
WORKS FOR THOSE WHO CAN HIRE
ARMIES OF LOBBYISTS AND
LAWYERS.
THEY MAKE SURE THAT EVERY
RULE, EVERY REGULATION IS
THERE TO PROMOTE AND PROTECT
THE BIGGEST CORPORATIONS AND
THE RICHEST INDIVIDUALS.
DOES WASHINGTON WORK FOR
EVERYBODY ELSE?
THE ANSWER IS NOT SOME OF.
LET ME GIVE YOU ONE QUICK
EXAMPLE OF THAT.
LOOK AT STUDENT LOANS TODAY.
YOUNG PEOPLE WHO ARE TRYING
TO GO TO COLLEGE, RIGHT, THE
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT CHARGES
THEM AN INTEREST RATE THAT
NOT ONLY COVERS THE COST OF
THE BAD DEBTS, THE
ADMINISTRATIVE COST, THEY
DOUBLE IT THEN TRIPLE IT IN
SOME CASE AND SOME CASE GOES
EVEN HIGHER TO PRODUCE TENS
OF BILLIONS OF DOLLARS IN
PROFITS OFF THE BACKS OF OUR
KIDS.
SO WE HAVE A BILL PENDING
RIGHT NOW, JUST INTRODUCED
IT LAST WEEK, THAT SAYS IT
WILL BRING DOWN THAT
INTEREST RATE ON STUDENT
LOANS AND WE'RE GOING TO PAY
FOR IT BY SAYING, WE'RE
GOING TO CLOSE SOME OF THOSE
TAX LOOPHOLES THAT HELP
BILLIONAIRES PAY LESS THAN
TAXES THAN THEIR SECRETARIES
PAY.
I USE THAT AS ONE EXAMPLE.
BECAUSE I WANT TO-- I TAKE
THIS PERSONALLY.
THERE IS NO MONEY FOR ME TO
GO TO COLLEGE.
I ENDED UP GOING TO A
COLLEGE, A COMMUNITY COLLEGE
THAT COST $50 A SEMESTER.
I BORROWED MONEY ON AN LOAN
THAT WAS SUBSIDIZED BY THE
UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT.
I GREW UP IN AN AMERICA THAT
SAID WE THINK FIRST ABOUT
OPPORTUNITIES FOR OUR KIDS,
ABOUT BUILDING A STRONG AND
ROBUST MIDDLE CLASS.
THAT WILL CREATE
OPPORTUNITIES.
OPPORTUNITIES FOR THE POOR,
OPPORTUNITIES SO THAT OUR
CHILDREN AND GRANDCHILDREN
CAN DO SO MUCH MORE THAN WE
DID.
TODAY WE HAVE A WASHINGTON
THAT SAYS WE'RE GOING TO PUT
AN EXTRA TAX ON KIDS WHO ARE
TRYING TO GET AN EDUCATION.
SO THAT WE CAN KEEP THE
BUDGET GOING AND KEEP THE
LOOPHOLES OPEN FOR
BILLIONAIRES WITH FORTUNE
500 COMPANIES THAT PAY
NOTHING IN TAXES.
THIS IS REALLY WHERE OUR
COUNTRY IS HEADED.
AND WE HAVE GOT TO FIGHT
BACK.
IT'S WHY I WROTE THIS BOOK.
IT'S WHY I CALL THIS BOOK A
FIGHTING CHANCE.
I GOT A FIGHTING CHANCE.
I WANT EVERY KID TO GET THE
SAME THING.
>> Woodruff: A PASSIONATE
SENATOR ELIZABETH WARREN.
AND AS SHE SAID, THE KBOOK
IS A FIGHTING CHANCE.
WE THANK YOU FOR BEING WITH
US.
>> THANK YOU
>> Ifill: WE TURN TO POLITICS
NOW, WITH A PREVIEW OF
TOMORROW'S CLOSELY-WATCHED
PRIMARIES.
THE RESULTS COULD SET THE STAGE
FOR SOME OF THE MOST
CONSEQUENTIAL RACES THIS FALL.
VOTERS WILL BE HEADING TO THE
POLLS IN SIX STATES: ARKANSAS,
GEORGIA, IDAHO, KENTUCKY, OREGON
AND PENNSYLVANIA.
JOINING US TO LOOK AT WHAT WE'RE
WATCHING IN SOME OF THE KEY
CONTESTS IS NEWSHOUR POLITICAL
EDITOR DOMENICO MONTANARO.
WELCOME AGAIN, SOME NICCO,
OF THE SIX STATES WHICH ARE
YOU WOCHING.
>> I AM WATCHING KENTUCKY
AND GEORGIA ON THE
DEMOCRATIC SIDE, THEY ARE
REALLY TWO STATES WHERE
DEMOCRATS HAVE ANY TARGET
WHATSOEVER TO TRY TO TAKE
OVER REPUBLICAN HELD SEATS
BUT ON THE OTHER SIDE OREGON
AND ARKANSAS ARE TWO STATES
TO REALLY WATCH CLOSELY,
ESPECIALLY THIS REPUBLICAN
PRIMARY IN OREGON BECAUSE
REPUBLICANS FEEL LIKE A
WOMAN WHO THEY HAVE RUNNING
THERE, MONICA WEHBY CAN
REALLY GIVE THEM THE BEST
CHANCE TO POSSIBLY TAKE ON
JEFF MERKLEY FOR THAT SEAT.
SHE PRO-ABORTION RIGHTS AND
MAYBE GIVES THEM A DECENT
CHANCE IF THIS WAS A LONG,
YOU KNOW, A BIG WAVE THAT
THIS WOULD GIVE THEM A
CHANCE THERE OUT WEST.
>> Ifill: INTERESTING HOW
MANY OF THESE KEY CONTESTS
WE HAVE WOMEN AT THE HEART
OF IT.
>> WELL, THE FIRST THING IS
WOMEN, WE KNOW, MAKE UP 51%
OF THE POPULATION A 53% OF
THE ELECTORATE.
BUT IN CONGRESS, SEVERELY
UNDERREPRESENTED.
WE KNOW AS YOU CAN SEE ON
YOUR SCREEN, 20% OF THE
SENATE, 20 WOMEN IN THE
SENATE IN CONGRESS, FOUR OUT
OF FIVE OF THOSE ARE
DEMOCRATS.
IN THE HOUSE, JUST 79 OUT OF
435 MEMBERS OF THE HOUSE ARE
WOMEN.
THAT'S ABOUT 18%.
WE KNOW THAT THERE ARE
SEVERAL REASONS FOR THIS.
TOP OF THE LIST INCUMBENCY
SEEMS TO BE SOMETHING THAT
MAKES IT VERY DIFFICULT FOR
ANYBODY WHO WANTS TO TRY TO
GET IN.
WHEN YOU HAVE 90 SOMETHING
PERCENT INCUMBENCY RATES T
MAKES IT VERY HARD FOR
ALMOST ANYONE TO TRY TO GET
INTO SOME OF THESE RACES.
>> Ifill: LET'S LOOK AT A
COUPLE RACES TOMORROW WHERE
WOMEN CANDIDATES WE'RE
WATCHING CLOSELY.
GEORGIA NUMBER ONE.
>> WELL, GEORGIA, NUMBER ONE,
BECAUSE YOU HAVE GOT
POTENTIALLY TWO WOMEN
WITHOUT COULD FACE-OFF
AGAINST EACH OTHER.
THE IN THE REPUBLICAN
PRIMARY YOU HAVE KIEF
CANDIDATES AND ONE OF THEM
KAREN HANDLE, FORMER
REPUBLICAN SECRETARY OF
STATE IN GEORGIA DENSE DAVID
PERDUE, BUSINESSMAN AND
THREE MEMBERS OF CONGRESS,
JACK KINGTON, PAUL BROUN AND
GINGREY.
THEY ARE SQUARING OFF TO BE
ONE OF THE TOP TWO TO MAKE
IT INTO THE RUNOFF.
REPUBLICANS FEEL IF IT IS
PERDUE OR HANDLE THEY CAN
MAKE A GOOD CASE, EVEN WITH
KING TONS-- KINGSTON THEY
FEEL HE IS AN ESTABLISHMENT
CANDIDATE.
BUT WITH HANDLE AT LEAST SHE
WOULD OFFSET THE DEMOCRATIC
MESSAGE ON WOMEN.
>> AND THE KEY, THES ARE
PERSON SHE WOULD BE RUNNING
AGAINST IS MOST LIKELY
MICHELLE NUNN.
>> FORMER-- SHE IS A
DEMOCRAT AND THE DAUGHTER OF
THE FORMER SENATOR SAM NUNN.
SO YOU COULD POTENTIALLY
HAVE TWO WOMEN SQUARING OFF
AGAINST EACH OTHER IN THAT
RACE.
>> LET'S GO TO KENTUCKY.
>> SO IN KENTUCKY ALISON
GRIMES IS WITTING IN THE
WINGS AGAINST EACH MITCHMAN
CON EL OR MATT BEVIN.
McCON SELL EXPECTED TO
BREEZE PAST BEV NIN THIS
RACE.
OF COURSE McCON SELL TRYING
TO BECOME THE MAJORITY
LEADER, NOW HE IS MINORITY
LEADER.
AND ALISON GRIMES TIED IN
MOST POLLS HERE.
AND SHE COULD BE THE FIRST
WOMAN SENATOR FROM KEN YOU
MENTIONED OREGON.
I WANT TO SKIP AHEAD TO THE
ENDANGERED DEMOCRATIC
INCUMBENTS.
IN THIS CASE WE'RE TALKING
ABOUT WOMEN.
NORTH CAROLINA, LOUISIANA
AND NEW HAMPSHIRE.
>> THAT SAY BIG REASON WHY
DEMOCRATS ARE SO NEEDING TO
PUSH A LOT OF THE ISSUES
RELATED TO WOMEN IN
PARTICULAR BECAUSE THEY HAVE
IM-- WOMEN ARE REALLY REE-- KEY
HERE WHETHER IT IS MICHELLE
NUNN OR ALISON GRIMES TRYING
TO WIN TO TAKE OVER A
REPUBLICAN SEAT N NEW
HAMPSHIRE JEAN SHAHEEN
AGAINST SCOTT BROWN.
IN NORTH CAROLINA WITH
SENATOR KAY HAGAN AGAINST
TOM TILLIST, THE REPUBLICAN
IN THAT RACE.
AND IN OF COURSE IN
LOUISIANA MARY LANDRIEU WHO
HAS GOT GREAT POLITICAL
DYNASTY OF THE LANDRIEUS IN
THAT STATE SHOWS REALLY HOW
MUCH WOMEN ARE SO IMPORTANT
TO DEMOCRATS IN THESE RACES.
>> Ifill: OF COURSE WE ARE
GETTING AHEAD BECAUSE THESE
AREN'T ALL BEING VOTED ON
TOMORROW BUT IT STILL TELLS
US WHAT THE SENATE COULD
LOOK LIKE.
FOR INSTANCE, IT WOULD TAKE
ALL OF THESE WOMEN TO WIN TO
ACTUALLY GAIN A NUMBER, WE
HAVE 20 WOMEN IN THE SENATE.
>> IF ALL THE WOMEN LOSE YOU
COULD SEE A REDUCTION OF TWO
WOMEN.
YOU WOULD HAVE 18.
BUT IF ALL OF THEM WIN YOU
WOULD HAVE ABOUT 26.
AND THAT'S NOT A WHOLE HECK
OF A LOT OF PROGRESS TO BE
HONEST BUT WHEN YOU LOOK AT
THIS YEAR VERSUS 2012, FOR
EXAMPLE, A RECORD NUMBER OF
WOMEN RAN IN 2012, 298 WOMEN
THIS TIME AROUND ONLY 235
WOMEN SO FAR.
AND THAT'S NOT GOING TO COME
CLOSE PROBABLY TO THE RECORD
NUMBER SET THEN.
>> Ifill: IT SHOULD BE SAID
THERE ARE STRONG REPUBLICAN
PROSPECTS TOO.
WEST VIRGINIA YA, IOWA AND
MICHIGAN AND WE'LL BE
WATCHING THEM ALL.
>> ABSOLUTELY.
>> THANK YOU SO MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Ifill: FINALLY TONIGHT,
ONE MAN'S STORY OF
TRANSFORMATION.
IT COMES FROM MYANMAR, THE
COUNTRY FORMERLY KNOWN AS BURMA,
WHERE UNTIL RECENTLY A MILITARY
GOVERNMENT DENIED POLITICAL
FREEDOMS, AND KEPT IT CLOSED
FROM THE OUTSIDE WORLD.
JEFFREY BROWN TRAVELED THERE
RECENTLY.
HERE'S THE LAST OF HIS REPORTS.
>> Brown: IT'S A SIMPLE ACT:
DRIVING A HEARSE THROUGH A POOR
NEIGHBORHOOD IN THE CITY OF
YANGON.
BUT IT'S PART OF A LARGER EFFORT
WITH GREAT SIGNIFICANCE FOR THE
COUNTRY, AND THE DRIVER.
IN THE 1980'S AND 90'S, KYAW THU
WAS ONE OF MYANMAR'S LEADING
FILM STARS.
APPEARING IN MORE THAN 200
MOVIES, DIRECTING SIX OTHERS,
AND WINNING TWO BURMESE ACADEMY
AWARDS.
HE WAS SO POPULAR, THE MILITARY
GOVERNMENT USED HIM TO STAR IN
SEVERAL PROPAGANDA FILMS.
IN ONE, HE PLAYED A GOVERNMENT
SOLDIER FIGHTING REBELS IN THE
ETHNIC REGION OF KAREN.
>> ( translated ): WE HAD TO
CARRY GUNS WITH BULLETS IN THEM
TO ASSURE OUR SAFETY DURING THE
FILMING.
THE KAREN REBELS HAD ORDERED ME
DEAD, THEY HAD A PRICE ON MY
HEAD, BECAUSE I WAS MAKING THESE
PROPAGANDA FILMS.
>> Brown: AT A CERTAIN POINT,
THOUGH, KYAW THU REALIZED THAT
HIS SYMPATHIES WERE MORE WITH
THE PROTESTERS AND REBELS.
SO WHEN THE GOVERNMENT ASKED HIM
TO DO ANOTHER PROPAGANDA FILM,
HE MADE A CAREER-ENDING
DECISION.
>> ( translated ): IT WAS A FILM
ABOUT STUDENTS TAKING UP ARMS
AND FIGHTING AGAINST THE
MILITARY GOVERNMENT.
I DIDN'T WANT TO DO IT, SO I
REFUSED."
>> Brown: IN 2001 HE TURNED FROM
ACTING TO ACTIVISM, FOUNDING THE
"FREE FUNERAL SERVICE SOCIETY,"
WHICH PROVIDES FUNERAL
ARRANGEMENTS FOR PEOPLE WHO
CAN'T AFFORD THEM.
HE SAYS HE STILL REMEMBERS THE
FIRST TIME HE WENT TO PICK UP A
BODY.
>> IT WAS A YOUNG GIRL WHO DIED
OF A SNAKE BITE.
THE FATHER INITIALLY DIDN'T
THINK HE COULD AFFORD THE
HOSPITAL COSTS SO HE DIDN'T SEND
HER AT FIRST.
BY THE TIME HE DECIDED HE MUST,
IT WAS TOO LATE AND SHE DIED ON
THE WAY.
>> Brown: FROM THAT HUMBLE
BEGINNING, HIS ORGANIZATION HAS
NOW HELPED NEARLY 140,000
FAMILIES, OFTEN DOZENS A DAY.
SO THESE ARE ALL THE CALLS THAT
CAME IN TODAY ABOUT BODIES?
>> YES, WITH A LISTING OF THE
HOSPITAL AND THE ADDRESS.
>> Brown: SO 24 CALLS ALREADY
TODAY AND IT'S JUST AFTER 1:00.
>> ( translated ): Yes.
>> Brown: THIS IS NO SMALL
MATTER IN THIS OVERWHELMINGLY
BUDDHIST COUNTRY, WHERE FUNERAL
SERVICES ARE STEEPED IN
TRADITION, AND ALSO CAN BE QUITE
COSTLY.
THE FREE FUNERAL SERVICE HELPS
WITH TRANSPORTATION OF THE BODY,
THE SERVICE, INCLUDING FLOWERS,
AND CREMATION OR BURIAL,
EVERYTHING.
MYANMAR IS ONE OF THE POOREST
COUNTRIES IN ASIA.
THE WORLD BANK ESTIMATES THAT A
QUARTER OF THE POPULATION LIVES
BELOW THE POVERTY LINE.
A THIRD OF ALL CHILDREN UNDER
FIVE ARE MALNOURISHED.
SO THE GOVERNMENT HERE CAN'T
PROVIDE WHAT WE WOULD CALL A
SAFETY NET?
>> ( translated ): NO, THERE
ISN'T ANY GOVERNMENT SUPPORT.
THE GOVERNMENT SAYS THEY ARE
HELPING WITH THE EDUCATION
SECTOR AND THE MEDICAL SECTOR
BUT THEY DON'T SPEND ANY MONEY.
THE GOVERNMENT IS ALWAYS SAYING
THINGS BUT THEY DON'T FOLLOW UP.
AND THE PEOPLE END UP SUFFERING
FOR IT.
>> Brown: AND SO, KYAW THU'S
WORK HAS EXPANDED TO INCLUDE
EDUCATION AND MEDICAL SERVICES
BOTH IN YANGON AND AROUND THE
COUNTRY.
MORE THAN 400 YOUNG CHILDREN
ATTEND THIS SCHOOL, HOUSED IN A
BRAND NEW BUILDING.
YOUNG ADULTS ATTEND COMPUTER AND
BUSINESS CLASSES.
AND THIS MEDICAL CLINIC, ONE OF
FIVE SUCH CENTERS, PROVIDES
EVERYTHING FROM BASIC CHECK-UPS
TO DENTAL SERVICES AND EVEN
HIGH-TECH EYE OPERATIONS.
THE MONEY IS RAISED THROUGH
PRIVATE DONATIONS.
TAKEN ALTOGETHER, KYAW THU SAYS
HE'S FOUND HIS TRUE CALLING.
>> ( translated ): THE HAPPINESS
YOU HAVE AS AN ACTOR WHEN YOU
WATCH YOUR FILM ON THE SILVER
SCREEN OR THE HAPPINESS YOU FEEL
WHEN YOU WIN AN ACADEMY AWARD,
DOESN'T COMPARE TO THE HAPPINESS
YOU FEEL WHEN YOU HELP SOMEONE
WITH A FUNERAL OR WHEN YOU HELP
SOMEONE WITH THEIR EDUCATION OR
A HEALTH PROBLEM.
HELPING PEOPLE LIKE THAT IS TRUE
CONTENTMENT.
>> Brown: LAST FALL, KYAW THU
WROTE A BOOK CALLED, "IF I WERE
PRESIDENT."
IT WAS BOTH A CRITIQUE OF THE
CURRENT GOVERNMENT AND A
PROPOSED ACTION-PLAN FOR
BUILDING UP SOCIAL STRUCTURES IN
MYANMAR.
COULD YOU EVER IMAGINE RUNNING
FOR PRESIDENT YOURSELF?
>> ( translated ): NO.
I WAS JUST POINTING OUT WHAT THE
GOVERNMENT SHOULD BE SUPPORTING
AND WHAT THE COMMUNITIES NEED.
I HAVE NO DESIRE TO RUN FOR THE
PRESIDENCY.
I AM NOT INTERESTED IN PARTY
POLITICS.
I'M WORKING FOR THE PEOPLE.
I'M WORKING FOR MY COUNTRY.
>> Brown: NO LONGER AN ACTOR,
BUT ONCE AGAIN, AS WORD OF HIS
WORK HAS SPREAD, A STAR IN HIS
COUNTRY.
>> Ifill: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY.
A FEDERAL GRAND JURY INDICTED
FIVE CHINESE MILITARY OFFICIALS
ON CHARGES OF HACKING
U.S. COMPANIES TO STEAL TRADE
SECRETS.
THAILAND'S ARMY DECLARED MARTIAL
LAW AFTER SIX MONTHS OF
POLITICAL INSTABILITY AND ANTI-
GOVERNMENT DEMONSTRATIONS.
AND EUROPEAN BANKING GIANT
"CREDIT SUISSE" PLEADED GUILTY
TO HELPING AMERICANS EVADE
TAXES, AND AGREED TO PAY $2.6
BILLION IN PENALTIES.
ON THE NEWSHOUR ONLINE RIGHT
NOW, NAVIGATING THE NEW HEALTH
INSURANCE MARKETPLACES WAS HARD
ENOUGH.
NOW, DATA SHOWS A LOT OF
FAMILIES DIDN'T SECURE PEDIATRIC
DENTAL COVERAGE FOR THEIR KIDS,
EVEN THOUGH IT'S CONSIDERED ONE
OF THE LAW'S ESSENTIAL BENEFITS.
OUR REPORTING PARTNER KAISER
HEALTH NEWS EXPLAINS WHY, ON THE
RUNDOWN.
THAT'S ON OUR WEBSITE,
newshour.pbs.org.
AND THAT'S THE NEWSHOUR FOR
TONIGHT.
ON TUESDAY, WE'LL LOOK AT A
COLLEGE WRITING PROGRAM THAT
EMPHASIZES POETRY AS COMMUNITY
SERVICE.
I'M GWEN IFILL.
WE'LL SEE YOU ON-LINE AND AGAIN
HERE TOMORROW EVENING.
FOR ALL OF US HERE AT THE PBS
NEWSHOUR, THANK YOU AND GOOD
NIGHT.